welcome to sushi 101 today we're going
to show you the basics of sushi to talk
about something ingredients and
demonstrate how easy it is for you to
take my counter and bring this to your
home
so let's start off with what you're
working with couple ingredients you need
to pick up starting with the naughty put
the dried seaweed you can find these in
most Asian stores here in town usually
come together in one piece like this
what we're gonna do today is we're gonna
cut it in half and work with half a
sheet of nori the second ingredients you
can work with is your rice
they don't come prepackaged like this
there's a whole process than making the
rice you're basically doing one cup of
rice and we're using short grain
caliban's - 1 cup of water when you're
done making your rice you'll add a bit
of solution to it it's usually 1/4 of a
cup of solution to 1 cup of rice being
made the type of rice that we're using
here is sushi rice
the term sushi refers to the rice and
not to the general tip before we'd ever
working today we'll be making 2 types of
sushi one will be the California style
inside out Maki and second one will be a
hammer we make in a California and the
spice of tune so let's begin with our
pad
a sheet of rice and for your spicy tuna
roll
we'll be using scallions and spicy tuna
mix this mix consists of hockey or
yellowfin tuna chopped up and mixed with
a combination sriracha sauce and our own
special house sauce our house sauce is a
spicy spicy aioli here we call it a raw
sauce you can substitute any type of
spicy sauce that you want I've seen
people use some Tabasco and jalapenos
but spicy tuna is a universal term for
anything where you take your fish kick
it up a notch and stick it onto your
sushi to begin with your pata do a
couple things you really need to know
I'm using gloves today to kind of make
sure that I don't make a big mess in
from the camera but we're gonna take a
bunch of our rice here about four to
five ounce portion of rice and you see
it balled up take you from our pot
prepared and cooled I'm gonna ball it up
so I'm just gonna make sure that I keep
Mike working area very clean place it in
the center of your pad and now you gonna
do what I call the bullet types of them
one of the hardest things that beginning
sushi people are gonna have to face with
is trying to keep everything on your mat
from here I'm gonna take the rice split
it in half
evenly distribute it onto our pack and
then I'm gonna form a bow tie using just
the tips of my fingers I'm gonna press
the rice out to the edge of the nori
pattern starting with the outer edges
having my little bowtie design and then
I'm gonna fix the rest of the perimeter
reason you do this is you'll see at the
end of your roll that if you take a
little attention to detail at this point
of your rolling sequence your sushi is
going to look excellent when you start
chopping it up and serve it to your
guests or to yourself you can see in a
matter of seconds I've got it even
ball of rice now I'm adding my
sushi next you gonna consider is what
kind of toppings you'd like to put on to
this role as I said it's an inside-out
roll so this part of the rice that
you're looking at will be the part of
the sushi roll it should actually see so
whatever you put on to this part of the
roll will be presented to your customer
your friends or to yourself in this case
we're using a five putt spice spice
Japanese shurochka sauce
combination of Japanese chili spice
dried orange rind black and white sesame
seeds and some dried seaweed this is the
first layer of spicy or spicy tuna right
now this is what makes it inside out I'm
taking my pad flipping it over be very
careful to keep all the ingredients here
and you nice and neat and anything I'm
gonna place onto this side of it which
is now the inside of your roll will we
consider what your filling
starting off with our scallions Jenna
selfie with scallions and then I'm
taking a couple of pinches of the spicy
tuna - here's ready to make a big
mistake one of the cardinal sins of
sushi rollers are trying to put too much
and do too little bit of a roll as you
can see we've cut this roll in half so
it's a half pack so anything more than
four or five ounces of material inside
will give you a roll that will not
properly seal and you'll not have a good
sushi experience so at this point I've
got all the fixings for my spicy tuna
roll now here's where the sushi chef
skills come to the plate I'm going to
take my fingers and again we're not
going to be manhandling sushi it's very
delicate art is very delicate food you
take my thumbs take my fingers I'm gonna
gently raise them all up until like Cup
and I'm going to decrease the air gap
between your fish you need nori pad you
press it up against there next I'm gonna
do is I'm actually
let gravity be my friend I'm not gonna
manhandle the sushi as you can see I'm
basically with my thumbs picking up
whatever bits of rice need to be placed
onto those nori pad with my fingers my
pinkies and all my fingers I'm gently
tucking in the roll and as I tuck and
press tuck and press with my thumbs and
my fingers I'm letting gravity do all
the work and the roll will fall on
itself now the piece of equipment that
most people consider critical to sushi
rolling through bamboo mat can come into
play for cleanliness and for ease of use
I wrapped it in saran wrap
you'll take your mat place it over your
roll and at this point one of the
nuances of the sushi roll that come into
play we're gonna form the roll and not
press it down I'll give a gentle a bit
of pressure to seal that bottom half of
the room again
gravity covered the roll my mats gonna
form it I'm gonna give a little bit
pressure and then I'm gonna use the mat
and my chopping board depress form roll
press form roll and after three rolls
I'm staring at the scene or bottom half
of my sexual and if I've done a good job
we can have our sushi roll has been
sealed we flip it over to this top side
and again you can see where the
presentation of the roll from the
beginning of the attention to detail
spreading on my spicy sauce spicy powder
comes into play
the next step santoku style knife for
you not the sushi rollers people ask me
you know what kind of knife should I get
this is 995 from Hawaii but if you keep
your blade sharp maintain your knife and
use a proper as far as cutting
techniques you can use any knife in your
kitchen what we're gonna do is we're
gonna bring into our water bin to play
and you're gonna want to keep a bit of
water right next to you just for
multiple purposes to watch your knife to
clean your hands and right next our
water bin you can want to have a wet
pack reason being is cleanliness is next
to godliness and sushi rolling and I'm
constantly dabbing the tips of my
fingers and any piece of my body that
comes in contact with the sushi roll so
I'm dipping my knife into the water and
this is a quick little tip a nice little
trick keep your pad by the water and
watch it dream now if you look closely
at the knife come heel to toe on the
blade it's coated with water so when I
come to my sushi roll I should have a
clean cut my knife is sharp I've
maintained it and there isn't a lot of
material on here I should have a clean
cut going through the road you can find
the center of my roll
I'm gonna do two cuts I'm getting an
initial cut they'll take me in about
half an inch into my roll and then a
second cut that should get me to the
base of the roll at which point my knife
put it in water watch a journey find the
centerpiece of my second half when I
first excuse me one cut two cuts like my
night repeat one cut - cut
Michael's on board
spicy tuna ready for presentation
you